# FAA Part 107 Drone Pilot License Exam Notes

## About the exam
* The exam must be taken at a FAA testing center in person. They have about 700 testing centers. 
* No endorsement required to take the exam
* 60 questions
* 2 hours to finish the exam
* 70% correct to pass
* 80% should be the goal because there are several trick questions. 
* FAA exams are on paper format
* You need to bring government ID and passport (if you are not a US citizen)
* You can bring a simple calculator
* Bring a magnifying glass because some prints are tiny
* Bring a ruler

### What topics are on the exam?
* Regulations 15-25%
* Airspace - 15-25%
* Weather - 11-16%
* Loading and Performance - 7- 11%
* Operations - 35 - 45%

## Loading & Performance
Drones can be fixed wing or quadcopters. FAA doesn't distinguish between the two. 

## RPIC Responsibilities
* Pilot in command is responsible to verify that the aircraft is loaded **prior to flight**.
* Loading is determined by the weight and balance of the aircraft. If proper weight and balance are not achieved, the flight be underpowered or unstable. 
* Manufacturer's specify the weight and balance requirements. Your responsibility as an rPIC is to make sure you comply with those specifications. These are usually specified in the Pilot's Operating Handbook or uAS flight manual (more common in small quadcopters)

## Axis of Rotation
* Roll - Controlled by ailerons - Turning left and right
* Pitch - Controlled by elevators - Climing up and down
* Yaw - Controlled by rudder

Quadcopter specific information
* Roll - Left or right on the controller left of joy stick. You can also control the pitch of the roll by using the up or down part left of joy stick. 
* Yaw - Left or right on the controller right of joy stick
* Elevator - Up or down on the controller right of joy stick

## Forces of Flight
* Lift - Upward force on the wing
* Weight - Downward force on the wing. Always opposite to lift. 
* Thrust - Forward force often produced by the engine
* Drag - Opposite of thrust

Rotorcraft also has four forces

### Lift
* Motors produce lift by rotorcraft
* On fixed wing aircraft, the lift is produced by the wing
* Lift can be visualized as being applied to a point known as the center of pressure or center of lift. (CP or CL is used in diagrams)
* Lift is always against the weight
* In straight and level flight, lift and weight are equal.
* Relative wind is going to be parallel to the flight path in the opposite direction. 
* Leading edge is where the airflow strikes before separating
* Trailing edge is where the airflow leaves the wing
* Chord line is the imaginary line between the leading and trailing edge. 
* Angle of attack is the angle between the relative wind and chord line
* Lift is perpendicular to the relative wind
* Drag is perpendicular to the lift
* Resultant force is the combination of lift and drag
* Lift is proportional to the speed of the aircraft and angle of attack of the airfoil.
* Faster speed usually means higher amounts of lift. Higher angle of attack usually means more lift. 
* Top of the airfoil has lower pressure because it makes the air go up faster
* Bottom of the airfoil has high pressure because it doesn't speed up. 
* Higher pressure area wants to get to equilibrium. So, it will head towards lower pressure area. 

### Weight
* Weight is the result of gravity and it is applied at the Center of Gravity.
* Center of gravity is the point where the aircraft is in equlibrium
* Always opposite to Lift.
* If the weight of the aircraft exceeds maximum allowable weight, the airfoil won't be able to produce enough lift to counteract the weight. 

### Thrust
* For fixed wing, the propeller produces the thrust. 
* Propeller is an airfoil itself. Same principle as lift. 
* For rotorcraft, the thrust is created by the motor and the propellers in the motor. Thrust is only created if the rotorcraft is banked. 
* If vertical lift and weight are equal and the thurst and drag are equal, then we have an unaccelerated forward flight. 
* There should be an imbalance between thrust and drag for you to accelerate forward or backward. 
* Similarly, there should be an imbalance between lift and weight for you to accelerate up or down. 
* If all the four forces are equal, then the rotorcraft will remain stationary at a point. 

### Drag
Two types of drag

* Parasitic Drag
* Induced Drag (also known as Lift Induced Drag)

#### Parasitic Drag
As the speed of the aircraft through the air increases, parasitic drag increases. 

There are three different types of parasitic drag
* Form drag - Drag induced due to the shape of an object
* Interference drag - The combination of drags created. Wing creates its own drag. Fuselage creates its own drag. But when you put them together, you create even more drag than the sum of the two. So, this is why you can view it as 1+1 = 3. 
* Skin Friction - Imperfections on the surface of the lift produces additional drag

#### Lift Induced Drag
* For fixed wing aircraft, the lift induced drag starts as soon as lift is produced. 
* For rotorcraft, the lift induced drag starts as soon as you move laterally or side ways. 
* As the speed increases, induced drag reduces. 
* But the greater the angle of attack, the greater the induced drag. 

### Stalls
* Stall occurs when the aircraft hits the critical angle of attack
* Lift is no longer generated
* Stall can happen at any air speed. 
* Airflow is no longer laminar in the case of a stall. 
* Quadcopter stalls are extremely rare. 
* Only way to reduce stall is the lower the angle of attack

### Load Factor
* Load factor is the acceleration of gravity. Commonly referred to g forces. 
* Load factor increases with the bank angle in a fixed wing aircraft because of centrifugal force. 
* Aircraft can disintegrate if the load factor is way above specifications.
* As load factor increases, the faster you are going to stall. 
* Don't do any abrupt turns when you are close to the ground.

### Stability
* The ability of an aircraft to return to the original flight path
* There are two types of stability - static stability and dynamic stability. 
* Static stability - Initial tendency to go back to equilibrium. Positive - Go back to the starting point. Neutral - Stays after disturbance. Negative - Goes in an unpredictable and irreversible direction after disturbance. 
* Dynamic stability - Response over time. Positive Static, Positive Dynamic, Positive Static, Neutral Dynamic and Positive Static and Negative Dynamic

## Factors Affecting Performance
* CG Location - Center of Gravity Location
* Altitude
* Temperature
* Humidity
* Weight

### Center of Gravity Location
* Arm - Distance between CG and force
* Moment - The efficiency of the force. It is a product of arm and force. 
* Think about a door. The hinges are usually where CG is located. The knob is where the force is usually applied and the knob is usually located on the other side of the hinge. So, the distance between the hinge and door knob is the arm. The force is the force applied on the knob. Since the arm is long, the force can be minimal. 
* When an object is shifted from one location to another, the center of gravity location is shifted. 
* Every aircraft has center of gravity limits. So, center of gravity location cannot shift unexpectedly. 
* Always ensure that the equipment loaded into the aircraft is loaded in a way that doesn't affect the CG location during the flight. 
* Aft means back
* Forward means forward

#### Aft CG
Effect of Aft CG
* Higher Crusing Speed because taildown moment doesn't need to be high
* Increased range
* Shorter takeoff distance
* Decreased Stability
* Possibly uncontrollable
* Even a slight change in angle of attack will cause rotation or take off
* Similarly a small flare will be exaggerated on landing
* Lower stall speed

All of this is only applicable for fixed wing aircraft. For quadcopters, the flight performance (range, cruise speed and others) will be affected by aft CG. 

#### Forward CG
Forward CG causes

* Slower cruise speed
* Decreased range
* Longer takeoff distance
* Increased stability
* Easier stall recovery
* Longer takeoff
* Difficult flaring
* Faster stall speed

#### Exceeding CG Limits
If you exceed CG limits, it is called running the aircraft outside its envelope. 
* Too forward CG, aircraft will never take off
* Too far aft, the aircraft will stall as soon as it is airborne

For quadcopter, shifting the CG will cause instability and wearing out one or mroe of the motors compared to others and potential failure. 

Always make sure that the weight is within limits. 

### Altitude
As altitude increases, pressure decreases. Air density decreases. So, engine performance decreases. Lift is also decreased. Sea Level should also be considered because some places like Denver are already at high altitude. 

### Temperature 
* As the temperature increases, performance decreases. 
* As the humidity increases, performance decreases
* A hot humid summer day = horrible performance
* On cold days, battery performance is affected. So, quadcopters might have reduced range on those days. 

### Weight
A heavier aircraft needs more lift. More lift is achieved at faster speeds or at higher angle of attack. But more speed leads to more induced drag which affects performance. 

### Other Facts
For fixed wing aircraft, runway length should be considered. The kind of surface should also be considered. For both fixed wing and quadcopters, level ground is ideal. Any sort of slope is not ideal. 

For fixed wing aircraft, you want to fly into the wind as it allows for more lift. 

And always avoid obstacles. 

### FAA Questions
* Questions about Pilot's Operating Handbook or UAS manual
* Angle of Attack
* When does a plane stall

As angle of attack increases, induced drag increases.
As speed increases, induced drag decreases. 
Weight doesn't change angle of attack

## Part 107 Regulations
* eCFR - Electronic Code of Federal Regulations

Important Regulations related to drones
* Part 107 - Small Unmanned Aircraft
* Part 48 - Registration of Unmanned Aircraft
* Part 89 - Remote Identification of Unmanned Aircraft

### Part 107
Remote Pilots operating for non-recreational purposes. Everyone has to operate under 107 unless and until you have an exemption under USC Section 44809 which is Flying As a Recreational Pilot. You can also operate under Certificate of Waiver or Authorization if you work on public safety or for government. 

CFR stands for Code of Federal Regulations. Title 14 is for air and space. Title 49 is related to Transporation and it is related to us because of NTSB (National Transportation Safety Board). Part 107 is under Title 14. 

One important note, FAA uses calendar months. On the last day of the month is what FAA means by that. 

### Part 107 Sub Part A - General
This part applies towards the registration, airman certification and operation of civil small unmanned aircraft systems in the US. 

If FAA says public in some place, they mean government and public safety. 

107 doesn't apply to the following situations
* Air carrier operations - Drone delivery is not included in 107 and instead included in Part 135. 
* Any aircraft that is subject to 49 USC 44809. 44809 is a broad exemption for purely recreational fliers and it has very strict rules. So, check those rules. 
* This also doesn't apply to cases where the pilot in command elects to conduct pursuant to exemption under Section 333 or USC 44807 or Part 91. 333 is the former regulations before 107. Part 91 only applies to aircraft over 55 pounds. It is often used for flying big planes. 

#### When do you need a Part 107 license?
Any time you are not flying recreationally. Don't get into trouble with the FAA. The fines are steep. Exchange of money is not a factor for 107. The intent of the flight is what matters. 

#### 107.3 Definitions

* Small unmanned aircraft - Less than 55 pounds on takeoff. There is no lower limit. Even the sub 250 gram drone has to be registered if you are flying under Part 107. Only flights on USC 44309 do not have register their sub 250 gram drones.

* Unmanned aircraft is defined as an aircraft operated without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft. 

* Remote Pilot In Command - A person who is manipulating the controls of sUAS or is supervising the person manipulating the controls. 

* Visual Observer - A person designated by the remote pilot in command to assist the remote pilot in command and the person manipulating the flight controls of the small UAS to see and avoid other air traffic or objects aloft or on the ground. 

#### 107.5 Falsification, Reproduction or Alteration
This section pretty much says don't try to falisify, reproduce or alter FAA documents. Punishment can be severe. 

A Remote Pilot In Command must have the following in his/her possession
* Remote Pilot Certificate
* A source of identification
* Any document that is required under Part 107 - Renewal written exam, registration, waivers, etc. 

Keep all registration documents for all your drones. Carry your license on a lanyard. Always keep digital copies. 

The pilot should make the documents available to
* The FAA
* Authorized representative of NTSB
* Any federal, state or local law enforcement
* Authorized representative from TSA

FAA has the right to make any test or inspection of any of the following
* the sUAS
* the remote pilot in command
* the person manipulating the flight controls
* the visual observor

107.9 talks about accidents. Any accident must be reported to the FAA within 10 calendar days. Accident is defined as the following

* Serious injury to any person or loss of consciousness
* Damage to any property where the cost of repair exceeds $500


### Part 107 Sub Part B - Operating Rules
You must either have a 
* Remote Pilot Certificate or 
* Must be under the direct supervision of a remote pilot in command who can take control of the small unmanned aircraft

You are restricted to one uAS flight at any given time. 

You can take control by
* Standing next to the non rated controller
* Using a buddy box system with two controllers
* Using an automated system where rPIC can place the aircraft into safe mode such as hover, holding pattern or return home safely. 

107.13 talks about registration. Registration of drones is required for any drones less than 55 pounds. The registration sticker must be easily readable and the FAA requires the markings to be present outside the aircraft. Drone registration date expires exactly 3 years from the day of registration. 

You cannot operate the aircraft unless and until the conditions are safe. The flight cannot be continued if the rPIC knows that is no longer a safe operation. 

107.17 talks about rPICs' medical condition. You are not allowed to be a rPIC, visual observor or manipulating the flight controls if you are not physically or mentally able to safely operate the aircraft. This also applies to anyone else that might be part of your operation. 

If you don't have the dexterity to operate, or visually impaired in some way to maintain the "see and avoid" vigilance or unable to maintain situational awareness due to illness or medications or debilitating physical condition such as a migrane or headache or hearing or speaking impairment that prevents effective communication. You might use alternate approaches to communicate effectively. 

* The remote pilot must be designated before or during the flight. 
* The remote pilot in command is responsible for and has the final authority for the operation. 
* The remote pilot in command is responsible for making sure that the aircraft won't pose undue hazard to other people, other aircraft or other property in the case of loss of control of the aircraft for any reason. 
* The remote pilot in command is responsible for making sure that all applicable regulations are complied with. 
* The remote pilot in command is responsible for making sure that the remote aircraft complies with all applicable rules and regulations. 
* It is possible for two remote pilots in command to transfer controls as long as they can maintain line of sight without loss of control. 

107.21 handles in flight emergencies. Remote pilot in command may deviate from any rule of this part to meet the needs of the emergency. If you deviate, you are required upon request by the FAA, to submit a written report on why you deviated. 

107.23 deals with hazardous operation. No person may operate an aircraft in a careless or reckless manner so as to endanger the life or property of another or allow an object to be dropped from an aircraft that creates an undue hazard to persons or property. 

107.25 deals with operations from a moving vehicle or aircraft. No person can operate an aircraft from another moving aircraft or from a moving land or water borne vehicle unless and until the aircraft is being operated over a sparsely populated area and is not transporting another person's property for compensation or hire. This is probably to tackle paparazzis. 

107.27 talks about alcohol and drugs. This regulation pretty much says you must comply with 91.17 and 91.19. Pretty much the regulations say the following

* You cannot operate or act as a crewmember of an aircraft within 8 hours of consumption of any alcoholic beverage. 
* You cannot be under the influence of alcohol. 
* You cannot be under the influence of any drugs (legl or illegal)
* You cannot have an alcohol concentration of 0.04 or greater
* You must submit to an alcohol test if requested by law enforcement and must provide the test of those results with in four hours of the test
* Refusing a test will result in denial of license for a period of 1 year. 
* Suspension or revocation of your remote pilot certificate
* No person shall operate a civil aircraft if they have knowledge that narcotic drugs, marijuana or any kind of depressant or stimulation drugs or substances are carried in the aircraft. 

107.57 - Any offenses realted to drugs (including marijuana) will result in the denial of application for one year after the date of the final conviction and suspension or revocation of remote pilot certificate. Similar penalties apply for 107.27 offenses related to alcohol. 

No medical certificates are required to operate under Part 107. 

107.29 defines rules for night time operations. Night is defined as the end of evening civil twilight and beginning of morning civil twilight as published in the air almanac converted to local time. 30 minutes before and after sunrise or sunset. 

* Passed the knowledge test after April 6, 2021
* Your aircraft must have an anti collision light that is visible for at least 3 statute miles and it must be a flashing light with sufficient flashing rates to avoid collision. The intensity of the light may be reduced if the pilot in command determines it is safe to do so. 

The drone must have the anti collision light. No additional training requirements are required. 

107.31 talks about visual line of sight aircraft operations - The pilot and the visual observer must be able to see the unmanned aircraft throughout the entire flight with vision that is unaided by any device other than corrective lenses. Here is the definition of the visual line of sight

* Aircraft's location
* Aircraft's altitude, attitude and direction of flight
* Air traffic and hazards in the airspace
* You need to determine if the aircraft doesn't endanger life or property of others. 
* FPV doesn't satisfy the visual line of sight requirements. FPV operator still needs a visual observer

107.33 Visual Observer requirements are discussed in this section. A visual observer is not required. But if you are using one, you need to adhere to the following requirements

* Maintain effective communications between visual observer, person working on flight controls and the remote pilot in command. 
* Visual observer must be able to see the aircraft unaided. 
* Everyone that is part of the crew must coordinate to scan the airspace for any potential collision hazard. 
* A person cannot operate  or act as a remote PIC or visual observer in the operation of more than one aircraft at a time. 

107.36 talks about carrying hazardous material. Hazardous material is described as any substance or material that is capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety and property. 

107.37 talks about operating near other aircraft and right of way rules. Drones do not have the right of way. Give way to all other aircraft. You can pass over, under or ahead unless it is well clear. 

107.39 talks about operation over human beings. No flying over humans allowed unless

* If the human being is directly involved in the operation
* Located under a covered structur or inside a stationary vehicle that can protect them
* If the operation meets the requirements of at least one of the operational categories under subpart D. 

107.41 talks about which airspace is allowed. Flying in controlled airspace (Class B, C, D or E2) is not allowed unless prior authorization is received from ATC. Same thing for prohibited/restricted airspace or areas activated by NOTAM. 

107.43 talks about operations in the vicinity of an airport. No person may operate aircraft in a manner that interferes with operations and traffic patterns at any airport, heliport or seaplane base. Always get authorization from the airspace controlling agency. 

107.49 lays out preflight requirements. The RPIC should do the following
* Check local weather conditions
* Check airspace requirements and flight restrictions
* Check for the location of persons or property on the surface
* Check for other ground hazards
* You are also required to ensure that all the persons who are participating in the flight are informed about the operating conditions, emergency procedures, contingency producedures, roles, responsibilities and potential hazards.
* Ensure that the control link between ground control station and the aircraft are working properly. 
* If the aircraft is a powered aircraft, ensure that there is enough available power. 
* Ensure that any object that is attached or carried is secure and doesn't adversely affect the flight characteristics or controllability of aircraft. 

107.51 talks about operating limitations. 
* You can fly 400 ft above the ground. Remember that you might have taken off at a different spot. So, you have to constantly monitor your altitude with respect to ground level. You are required to maintain the altitude regardless of topography.

400 feet rules applies unless
* You are in uncontrolled airspace
* It is flown with in 400 foot radius of a structure
* Does not fly higher than 400 feet above the structure's immediate upper limit

You have to be 500 ft below the clouds and 2000 ft away from the clouds. Check for reported cloud cover. Visibility is always reported in statute miles. This is also reported by airports. Minimum 3 statute miles visibility required. Speed limit for aircraft is 100 mph or 87knts. 

Automated operations - Pre planned and push a button. As a remote pilot in command, you must have the ability to control the routing and other commands at all time. If there is a lost link, the drone should be programmed to return home ASAP or get to ground ASAP. You can automate away multiple aircraft at the same time. 

### Part 107 Sub Part C - Remote Pilot Certification
107.61 talks about who can be eligible for remote pilot in command. 16 years of age, read, write and speak English and a knowledge test. 

107.64 - A temporary remote pilot certificate is valid for 120 days. You can get an extension if you don't get a permanent certificate. 

107.65 - In the past 24 calendar months
* Aeronautical knowledge test
* Complete recurrent training. FAA hosts the training. 

107.71 - If you fail the exam, you cannot take the exam again within 14 days. 
107.77 - If you change address, you need to notify FAA within 30 days. 

Visual observer's sole task is to watch for aircraft and report potential hazards. The license goes based on the date you passed the exam not the date in which your license was delivered. Digital Pilot Examiner is responsible for processing applications to Part 107. 

### Part 107 Sub Part D - Operations Over Human Beings
Only applies for flying over people or people in moving vehicles. You will need an aircraft with specific certifications to fly over humans. FAA has a website which tells if you an aircraft has been certified for OOP (Operations Over People).

In order to be able to fly over people, your aircraft must fall under one of the following categories
* Category 1
* Category 2
* Category 3
* Category 4 - Usually for very large aircraft. Requires prior authorization.

When flying over people, there are two kinds of recognized flights

* Sustained flight
* Transition flight 

FAA also cares about whether or not you are flying over an open air assembly.

Sustained flight includes the following

* Hovering
* Flying back and forth
* Circling in such a way that the aircraft remains above some part of the assembly. 

Sustained flight doesn't include brief, one-time transiting over a portion of assembled gathering where the transit is merely incidental to a point to point operation unrelated to the assembly. 

Previously, no flights over people was allowed. But short transition flights (like crossing the road) is now allowed because it is probably less risky than circling over them. 

FAA has not defined an open air assembly and will employ case by case approach. An example of an open air assembly would be concerts, sporting events, parades, protests, political rallies, community festivals, parks and beaches during certain events etc. FAA's guidance on open air assembly is to evaluate it based on the density of people not directly involved in the operation and the size of the operational area. Open air assemblies are often associated with public spaces. It is less likely to be an open assembly if you do not have spectators or you are over individuals. 

Means of compliance - The document submitted to the FAA on how the aircraft manufacturer is going to comply with these requirements. The documents will often include test, analysis or inspection that will be sent to FAA for review and approval. 

Declaration of compliance - Tells the FAA which make/model/series of aircraft that are compliant along with the range of serial numbers. 

If the aircraft is uncategorized, you cannot fly over people or moving objects with people in it. 

There are four categories
* Category 1 - The aircraft must be 0.05 lbs (or 250 grams) or less during takeoff and throughout the duration of the flight. The drone cannot contain any exposed rotating parts that would lacerate human skins on impact. To operate over human assemblies, the aircraft must meet remote ID requirements. It doesn't have to officially approved and cerfified by FAA. 

* Category 2 - The aircraft cannot cause injury to a human being equivalent to 11 foot pounds of kinetic energy upon impact. It doesn't contain any exposed rotating parts. It doesn't contain safety defects. The aircraft has to be labeled as category 2. It is listed with an FAA accepted declaration of compliance. You will get a system description (think of it as the pilot operating handbook) and a list of modifications that are allowed to be done that won't affect the certification. Also, need remote ID if flying over open air assemblies. 
* Category 3 - The aircraft has to be labeled as category. Approved by FAA. Cannot operate over open air assemblies. To operate over human beings using a category three - the operation must take place over a closed/restricted access site and all the human beings are on notice that the aircraft might be flying over them or all the human that the aircraft flies over must be part of the operation or the humans are under cover. 
The aircraft cannot cause damage more than 25 foot pounds of kinetic energy on impact. 
Does not contain any exposed rotating parts that would lacerate humans. Cannot contain safety defects. You will also receive an operating manual and list of modications that are allowed.
* Category 4 - Category 4 aircraft must receive an airworthiness certificate. Must be operated in accordance within the operating limitation. Must have maintainance, preventive maintanence, alterations and inspects. Must comply with remote ID requirements. 

An aircraft can qualify for multiple categories. 

To qualify for no moving parts regulations. Prop guards is the obvious solution. But adds weight. Automatic motor stop is the choice. 

To qualify for category 3 operation over humans, you are required to have closed or restricted access areas. The remote pilot in command in required to ensure that no inadveterent or unauthorized access occurs. Physical barriers, personnel or both. FAA also provides guidance on how to provide notice. Suggested notice mechnisms - public notices, signage, flagging, a written notice posted at entrance or a verbal notice. Written notice is the best option because it creates a paper trail. 

Operating over people at night is not prohibited. No specific distance from human beings is specified. But it is highly recommended. Always keep in mind about wind, gusts, precipitation and visibility. Also keep in mind that people and vehicles are always moving. 

Flying over moving vehicles regulations are on top of flying over people regulations. So, you have to follow both to be compliant. The aircraft must be flying over a closed/restricted access site and everyone on the site and inside the moving vehicle must be on notice. The aircraft is not allowed to perform sustained flight over the moving vehicle. Vehicle is defined as any means of transportation whether or not it is motorized. Bicycles and watercraft are considered vehicles.  

The people who you might be flying over needs to be provided notice. You don't actually need their consent. You can use a category 3 to fly over people as long as the area is restricted access and the people are inside are on notice. For category four, the owner of the aircraft is required to keep maintanence records. 

### Part 107 Sub Part E - Waivers
FAA can provide waivers for regulations

* Operating from a moving vehicle or aircraft
* Waive the requirement to have anti collision requirements
* Visual line of sight aircraft operation
* Visual observer
* Opeartion of multiple aircraft at once
* Yielding the right of way
* Operation over people
* Operation in certain airspace - This is usually not possible because you can simply get authorization to fly into a certain airspace. 
* Operating limitations for small unmanned aircraft
* Opeartion over moving vehicles

You will need to submit an application is faadronezone.faa.gov. 

### Registration Requirements
If you are over the age of 13, you have to register with your legal name. Fees are $5 per person if you are a hobbyist and $5 per aircraft for part 107. The aircraft cannot be registered in other countries. Only US citizens and permanent residents can register aircraft. For foreign nationals, only a certificate of ownership is issued. 

Any changes in information must be provided in FAA Drone Zone with in 14 days. This includes address change, cancellation of registration because of sales, transfer, destruction or export. Aircraft registration is valid for three years. Renewals can be done upto six months before expiration. The unique registration number must be legibly found in the aircraft and must be displayed. 

#### Remote ID
Think about it is as a license plate for a drone. Identify aircraft as they fly.

Complying with remote ID
* Get an aircraft equipped with remote ID
* Install a remote ID module on your old aircraft
* Fly at an FAA Recognized Identification Area (FRIA)

UAS cannot use ADSB. You cannot also install transponders for Squawk code. 

Any aircraft that needs to be registered should have remote ID. That is any aircraft under 55 lbs. For aircraft less than 250 grams and are flown for purely recreational purposes, then registration and remote ID are not required. Public safety operations are also require remote ID compliance. 

Remote ID contains the following information if it is built into the aircraft
* Serial Number or Session ID
* Latitude/Longitude/Altitude/Velocity
* Latitude/Longitude/Altitude of control station
* Emergency Status
* Time Mark

If you use a module, then the following information is broadcasted
* Serial number of the module
* Latitude, Longitude, Altitude and Velocity
* Latitude, Longitude, Altitude of take off point
* No emergency status
* Time mark

The registration datebase is only available to FAA and on request to law enforcement. The range of remote is several miles. Remote ID should be one from the moment of takeoff to shutdown. You have to make sure that the remote ID is functional before taking off. The broadcast must come directly from the aircraft. The remote ID systems have a self test functionality and can notify the pilot if the remote ID is not working. The operator must land the aircraft as soon as practical if the remote ID is not working. For modules, self test must be done manually. FRIA is an area where remote ID will not be required. 

### NTSB Requirements
NTSB requirement is on top of FAA requirement. Unmanned aircraft accident as an occurrence of death or serious injury. Serious injury is defined as the following
* Requires hospitalization for more than 48 hours (within 7 days of the injury)
* Results in fracture of any bone (except fingers, toes or nose)
* Causes hemorrahages, nerve, muscle or tendon damage
* Involves any internal organs
* Involves second or third degress burns (or burns affecting more than 5% of the body surface)

The operator must immediately report to NTSB 
* Aircraft accident
* Flight control malfunction or failure
* In flight fire
* Aircraft collision in flight
* Damage to the property, other than aircraft, estimated to exceed $25,000 or total loss which ever is less. 

You can fly without remote ID with authorization from the administrator. This is how the FRIA are was created. FAA maintains a DOC list where all the remote ID compliant aircraft are present. The aircraft's registration contains the serial number used for identification. 

## Airport Operations
Airport is defined as any area where we an aircraft can land or take off. Airports can be towered or un-towered. There are civil airports, military airports and private airports. 

## Types of Airports
### Towered Airport
Has air traffic control (ATC) tower. ATC provides orderly and expeditious flow of aircraft. Radio communication is mandatory for towered airports. 

### Non-Towered Airport
There are more non-towered airports in the US than tower. Radio communication is not required in non-towered airports. But a frequency called Unicom or CTAF (Community Traffic Advisory Frequency) is available. 

## True vs Magnetic North
* True North - Points to the north pole. Most maps use true north. 
* Magnetic North - Not at the same location as true north or at north pole. Magnetic North is constantly moving. But aircraft instruments align with the magnetic north. 

Variation is the degree of seperation between the true north and magnetic north. Variation is talked about from degrees to east or west. Add or subtract variation to get get true north. 

Use east is least, west is best. Subtract for east, add for west. True north plus or minus gives you magnetic north. 

## Runway Orientation
Runways are identified using 2 digit number based on magnetic north. We use the word "heading". Heading means what you are pointing to. 2 digit numbers are retrieved by chopping off the last digit and if it is below five, round down. If it is five or above, you round up. Runway with closed runways have crosses on the runway. 

## Traffic Pattern
## Wind & Pattern Indicators
## Airport Signs
### Mandatory
### Location And Direction
## Airport Beacon
## Airport Data
